---
layout: post
title: "Why I Hate Microformats"
id: 4cf5b682dabe9d2c610006ea
updated: 2012-06-05T10:33:40-04:00
date: 2006-07-12T18:30:00-04:00
categories:
- microformats
- xhtml
alias: /blog/archives/2006/07/12/why-i-hate-microformats
---

<blockquote><a title="Why I Hate Microformats" href="http://www.oreillynet.com/onjava/blog/2006/07/why_i_hate_microformats.html">Robert Cooper</a>: They are a hack to get around a problem that is going away VERY shortly.</blockquote>
I've been using <a href="http://microformats.org">microformats</a> more and more in my recent development. Even though I have yet to really find them useful personally, I think they are great concept. Anything that makes content more accessible is a step in the right direction.

But I have to say, <a title="Why I Hate Microformats" href="http://www.oreillynet.com/onjava/blog/2006/07/why_i_hate_microformats.html">Robert Cooper makes a great point</a>: "The problem is, this is a serious abuse of HTML."  XML already has a solution to deal with this problem, namespaces.  The problem is just that IE doesn't support namespaces in CSS, so you can't style anything but plain HTML.  Well, with 7 on the horizon, this problem goes away.

So why are we still using microformats? You could say it's so that they are accessible to IE users, but I imagine microformats are really only used by a segment of the early adopters. How many IE users are seriously using them? Besides, it wouldn't be to difficult to write some Javascript to transform the XML into style-able HTML. That would at least be a temporary solution until IE 7 is released main stream. And By that time, maybe the use of the new "microformats" would be more mainstream.
