---
layout: post
title: "Leaving Collective Idea"
id: 4cf8194cdabe9d4d49000014
updated: 2010-12-03T13:37:35-05:00
date: 2010-12-02T17:10:00-05:00
tags:
- life
redirect_from: /blog/archives/2010/12/02/leaving-collective-idea/
---

I have grown dissatisfied with my work as of late, and I have decided to leave "Collective Idea":http://collectiveidea.com.

The depth and breadth of what Collective Idea does has grown over the years: "contracting, consulting":http://collectiveidea.com/portfolio, "training":http://ideafoundry.info, "product development":http://letsfondo.com, "open source":http://github.com/collectiveidea, maintenance on client applications. All worthy endeavors, and all things that we do very well.

But I'm ready to focus on one thing and pour all of my time and energy into it. I want to finish something and be able to honestly tell myself that I did my best.

That's not something that can easily be done while fulfilling all the duties that go along with helping to run a company. Nor is it easy to alter the trajectory of a company with a culture and habits suited for the work currently being done.

So it's time for me to move on.

h2. What are you doing next?

Leaving a company that I helped build has made it difficult to think clearly about what I want to do next. I hope by the time I run out of money (sometime late next week) I will figure out what I want to be when I grow up.

I wish the guys at Collective Idea the best of luck. I have no doubt that they will continue to do great work.
