---
layout: post
title: "Wasting Time"
id: 4f0771aadabe9d371200338f
updated: 2012-01-06T17:30:19-05:00
date: 2012-01-06T17:00:00-05:00
tags:
- life
redirect_from: /blog/archives/2012/01/06/wasting-time/
---

I remember the day I bought "TextMate":http://macromates.com/. Like everyone, I loved TextMate. I loved it so much that I procrastinated learning anything else while I waited for TextMate Forever to be released. The new release that fixed everything was going to be out any day, so why should I waste time learning something new?

*Why should I waste time learning something new?* That question echoed in my head when I explained to a friend why I hadn't tried another editor yet. _Why should I *waste* time *learning* something new?_ Since when is learning something new a waste of time? I can think of many ways I have wasted time, and none of them involve learning something new.

*72 hours*. That's how long I wasted watching four and a half seasons of "24":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/24_(TV_series). I will never get those hours back. Now that's a waste! It was not relaxing (it was actually quite stressful and anxiety inducing), it wasn't intellectually stimulating and I didn't learn anything. Fortunately I came to my senses and stopped watching it.

From now on, when I waste time, I'm going to try to do it by learning something new, even if it's something I won't ever use.

On a related note, next week I will be blogging about my experience with learning "Sublime Text 2":http://www.sublimetext.com/
